can you guarantee results with seo
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business growth show if you
haven't yet check out our weekly email
where we share actual marketing tips
useful podcasts free guides bonus
resources and much much more each and
every monday to start your week off with
a bang sign up over at
businessgrowth.email
so the big big question
seo search engine optimization that
process of getting your website to that
all-important top spot page one in
google's organic search results so when
someone searches for the product or
service that you offer you come up top
to drive them to your website can people
guarantee can companies guarantee that
they're gonna get you to page one
well the short answer is no
and the reason being is
we don't control google we do not
control the algorithm the algorithm of
google is updated very very regularly
with new updates
and can we control where google's gonna
position your site ultimately we cannot
and the other thing we can't control is
how many visitors are actually gonna
convert into leads or customers there's
a lot of things that you can tweak that
you can manage that you can optimize you
can change with your website with your
content with seo best practices we'll
dive into shortly but ultimately you
cannot 100 guarantee that seo is going
to get a specific return against an
investment so you might be thinking sam
well you just said seo doesn't have any
guarantees why the hell should i even
consider doing it well the good thing
about seo is it's a long term strategy
that over time is gonna build brand
awareness build reputation and drive
more organic traffic to your website so
non-paid organic visitors to your site
and on the basis your site can convert
them it's gonna drive more sales
opportunities or more leads for your
sales team and it can also reduce your
ad spend so if you're spending money on
google ads different ad channels it can
reduce over time because you'll be
getting more organic traffic and like i
mentioned it can build up brand
reputation which is huge so it's not all
bad it's a great long term strategy in
fact at webchoiceuk.com is right now our
number one way to get inbound sales
leads and it's the same for many of our
clients so now we know we can't 100
guarantee specific results or
measurables from seo we should focus on
the things that we can control so one of
those first and foremost is for your seo
strategy
actually drilling down on target search
terms or target keywords so when you do
your keyword research using tools like
semrush or ubersuggest or ahrefs or
google keyword planner focusing on the
keywords that are actually having buying
intent that are more likely to drive
inbound leads or sales so when someone
types this search query this keyword
into google they've got the real intent
there to actually need your help so for
example that might be if you're looking
for crm they might type in best crm
provider or crm solutions for
accountancy or maybe you're a flooring
provider maybe they're typing flooring
provider in london if you're in london
or luxury flooring in bristol if you're
in bristol so the search terms actually
relate to what someone would type in if
they need your service or product right
here and right now and the next thing
you want to consider is making your
website in the best possible standing to
convert your traffic into sales revenue
so what you want to look at is things
like making sure your website loads
lightning fast so getting that website
page loading speed as close to one
second as possible if you haven't yet
check out google page speed insights you
can type in your website link and check
your page speed on mobile and pc and get
actual tips to increase that speed if it
is quite slow
and you want to look at things like
making sure your website passes the
grunt test so assuming someone lands on
your home page that top here error that
top banner explains exactly what you do
exactly how it helps people and guides
them to get in touch with a clear call
to action to request a quote book a demo
or book a call you want to make sure
that your website's a really useful
resource so making sure you've got
information pages on how your product or
service help people the problem you
solve providing resources such as useful
articles blogs maybe you've got video
resources podcasts free guides it's
making sure all that's included because
google loves fresh informative
well-written content that's going to
answer common questions or objections
from prospects making sure your website
leverages social proof
things like testimonials reviews
accreditations again video interviews
with customers so as people scroll
through as people hit different pages on
your site you are giving them the proof
that you can get the job done you're
sharing customers stories and showing
that you're able to help them out and
making sure that it's really easy to
convert so when people land on your site
it's very simple no matter if they're on
mobile or pc they can quickly click a
button to call you or they can request a
quote
or they can email you direct and fill in
a quick form so no matter what area of
their site on mobile or pc they can
clearly click those call to actions and
get in touch with you with a breeze and
once you've ensured that your website is
technically sound in terms of the build
and you've also considered things like
the on-site technical data like meta
titles and meta descriptions which is
what you see when you do a google search
result you'll see the title of the site
and you'll see the description and
making sure your website loads nice and
quickly and is a useful resource that's
going to convert visitors like we just
spoke about then you want to consider
creating content to go off of your
website so creating useful blog articles
that you can then submit to industry
relevant article submission sites you
can put a link back a back link on those
articles and over time improve the
domain authority of your own site and
one thing to add is it's really
important to make sure you're measuring
all the results with your site so making
sure you've got things like google
analytics google search console
all set up and your conversion tracking
too so whenever someone clicks your
phone number to call you whenever
someone fills out an enquiry form that
that's all tracked as analytics so you
can see in your google analytics when
these actions are going on and you can
report on it and likewise you can
understand the web traffic you're
getting so how many visitors you're
getting each day each week each month
and attributing those to different
channels so making sure you understand
what organic search what seo is actually
bringing to the table in terms of
traffic how many of those visitors are
actually then converting from just a
visitor into a lead or a cell and also
other useful statistics like the time on
page how long they're spending on each
page and the bounce rate how many people
are coming to the homepage and just
bouncing off because they're not getting
the information they need tracking these
stats is really interesting and useful
to understand so you can understand how
well things are going and what might
need improvement on your site and lastly
because seo is a long term investment
unless you do operate in a really small
geographic location or your industry is
very very niche and there's hardly any
competition it's going to take a while
perhaps several months to see some
results
now other things you consider to drive
traffic to your site faster to get
inbound leads faster you might want to
consider things like google ads so when
someone searches you'll be at the top or
the bottom listings on the ads maybe you
want to look at review sites which are
often ranked well on google so you can
pay to be at the top on the sponsor
listing review sites or maybe looking at
other channels like linkedin ads or
social ads on facebook or such so you
can start driving a quick fast hit of
traffic to your site and drive inbound
opportunities whilst the seo is taking
effect and building up and there you
have it i hope this insight into why seo
cannot guarantee specific returns
against investment and if anyone is
telling you that seo can 100 guarantee
you something then you might want to
think twice
as always if you enjoyed today's episode
a quick rating on your podcast channel
be at applebee at spotify or wherever
else is always appreciated or if you're
on youtube a quick subscribe i'll be
very thankful for and with that i shall
catch you on the next one cheers